---
title: "Revolutionizing Data Privacy: The ENCRYPT Project's Innovations and Applications."
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-09-03-emcis
excerpt: ''
date: 2024-09-03
venue: 'EMCIS'
---

The ENCRYPT project, an innovative collaborative project under the Hori-zon Europe Framework Programme, will integrate privacy-preserving tech-nologies across three key sectors, aiming to revolutionize the way sensitive data is processed and protected. This white paper outlines the project's core methodologies and applications, including the use of Fully Homomorphic Encryption, Trusted Execution Environments, Differential Privacy and advanced Hybrid Protec-tion Services. Through its platform, ENCRYPT seeks to address the chal-lenge of ensuring data privacy and utility, across federated data spaces within the EU. This is essential towards ENCRYPT’s compliance with GDPR standards while enabling secure and efficient data processing activities. ENCRYPT use cases stem from the domains of Fintech, Health and Cyber-security and through this, the versatility and impact of its results and activi-ties will be presented. Each use case leverages the project's cutting-edge pri-vacy-preserving technologies to safeguard data while still allowing for data-analytics to occur and enabling decision-making. From securing financial transactions, achieving patient data confidentiality and strengthening defenses against cyber threats, ENCRYPT's use cases showcase the project's innovations in privacy technology. 

This paper serves as an essential guide for ENCRYPT, where stakeholders from industry, academia and the ecosystem, can gain insights into the pro-ject's objectives, methodologies and potential to shape the future of data pri-vacy and security.

[Download Preprint](https://zenodo.org/records/13960393/files/Revolutionizing%20Data%20Privacy%20The%20ENCRYPT%20Project's%20Innovations%20and%20Applications%20-%20Final%20PDF.pdf?download=1)


